male gliding leaf frogs leap from the
treetops
[Music]
to slow their descent they use their
huge webbed feet as parachutes these
large tree frogs spend most of their
lives and the high canopy and only come
down when it's time to breed once
settled they begin to serenade their
unseen females now it's time for the
females to make family there's no
shortage of suitors but this female has
already made her choice she's heading
towards the loudest call because now it
calls come from big frogs and big is
best but to reach him he must run the
gauntlet of a gang of smaller seekers
there in the chanter making is to make a
sneaky interception he scored but with
more females arising all the time it's
not over until the fat frog stopped
singing
beats survival providing and outputs to
other uses two's company three's
inconvenient but in any case all male
thugs are equipped with dry thumbs which
enable them to get a vice-like grip on
their moist partners it's a case of
first come first serve living in such a
humid environment means jungle frogs are
less tied to puddles and pools and these
even lay their eggs out of water there's
little chance of them drying out and up
here they're safer from predators